Could you please give us your name?
Jeffrey Epstein.
Jeffrey Epstein was a prolific pedophile
and sex trafficker [music] with dozens
of victims.
Many of them young and vulnerable women.
Ghislaine Maxwell is the only person
currently imprisoned for her role in
this illicit operation. Other people
mentioned in the Epstein files released
by the US [music] Justice Department
have denied wrongdoing and few have even
been the subject of any legal
proceedings.
Both before and after Epstein's 2008
conviction for solicitation of
prostitution with a minor, the disgraced
financier built a network of elite
influence across finance, politics, and
[music] academia. Bloomberg has analyzed
thousands of emails and documents to map
the size and reach of his network and to
understand how he was able to build and
sustain such influence even as the
allegations against him accumulated.
It shows how influence operated.
>> [music]
>> Built through access, sustained through
favors, and exchanged through
relationships and constant [music]
transactionalism.
Epstein's influence started with wealth
and one of his earliest and most [music]
consequential financial relationships
was with Les Wexner, the retail
billionaire and the founder of L Brands.
Epstein met [music] Wexner in the 1980s
while trying to make a name for himself
as a financial advisor for the wealthy
[music] elite.
In the 1990s, Epstein was granted full
power of attorney over Wexner's personal
finances.
He would soon also acquire Wexner's New
York mansion and according to Wexner,
purchase [music] an L Brands aircraft.
Epstein would also claim he helped
manage major assets including the
construction of Wexner's [music] yacht
among other large development projects.
Their relationship was turning [music]
point in Epstein's rise, but why Wexner
entrusted him with such vast wealth
remains [music] an unanswered question.
A spokesperson for Wexner declined to
comment.
Wexner eventually cut ties [music] with
Epstein in the late 2000s. As I look
back at it, I was conned
by the world Olympic [music] all-time
con artist.
But by then, Epstein had already
leveraged that [music] relationship to
build credibility in financial circles,
positioning himself to move on to other
wealthy clients, [music] like Leon
Black,
co-founder of private equity giant
Apollo Global Management.
Epstein advised [music] Black on
everything from trust and estate
planning, tax issues, philanthropy, and
even helped manage his multi-billion
dollar art collection.
According to an investigation
commissioned by Apollo, Black believed
that Epstein provided advice that
delivered more than $1 billion of value.
In exchange, Leon Black steered [music]
at least $158 million to Epstein.
Payments the US Senate Finance [music]
Committee said far exceeded those made
to comparable advisers. Black also
donated another $10 million to one
[music] of Epstein's charities.
Epstein was also deeply involved in
Black's [music] personal life,
helping him conceal an affair, and
suggesting surveillance [music] when
Black's mistress demanded a large
payoff.
A 2026 [music]
Senate Finance Committee investigation
uncovered what it alleged was millions
of dollars in payments Black [music]
made to women, and evidence that he
often used Epstein as his intermediary.
Black stepped down as Apollo's CEO in
2021,
and has repeatedly expressed regret
about his relationship with Epstein.
The Epstein files revealed that former
Barclays CEO Jes Staley was another key
financial figure in Epstein's rise. The
two met in the early 2000s when Staley,
while at JP Morgan, was responsible for
cultivating high-net-worth clients like
Epstein, whose accounts generated
millions of dollars a year in fees for
the bank.
Emails and court documents show a close
relationship between the two, including
shared trips and frequent messaging.
The relationship led to a major hedge
fund acquisition for JP Morgan when
Epstein introduced Staley to his close
friend Glenn Dubin, the co-founder of
hedge fund Highbridge Capital.
Epstein got a $15 million finder's fee
for helping seal the deal.
Later, as concerns mounted internally
about Epstein's alleged involvement in
sex [music] trafficking,
emails indicate Staley stepped in to
keep him on as a client.
The bank for the last several months has
been facing a pair of lawsuits alleging
that it benefited from Epstein's sex
trafficking. JP Morgan blames Staley for
maintaining Epstein's relationship with
the bank while denying knowledge of his
alleged illicit activities. Staley
didn't return our request for comment
and has [music] denied any knowledge of
or involvement in Epstein's alleged
crimes.
The emails show how Epstein leveraged
his connections with young women
and access [music] to them
as a method of influence.
Staley appears in several such
correspondences where he and Epstein
used coded language to discuss women,
including references to Disney
characters.
The Epstein files also revealed that New
York Giants executive vice president and
chairman of the board Steve Tisch
frequently contacted Epstein to discuss
various [music] women,
at times discussing their nationalities
and physical appearance.
In one exchange, Tish asked Epstein if a
woman is a pro or civilian.
Tish has said he never took up Epstein
on his invitations and deeply regrets
associating with him.
He has not been charged with any crimes.
For years, Epstein relied on connections
to some of the country's most prominent
lawyers who helped him thrive even
following his 2008 conviction. Among
them was Brad Karp who worked with
Epstein in managing Leon Black's wealth.
Emails released by the Justice
Department showed that Karp reviewed
documents for Epstein including a draft
court filing arguing that Epstein's
decade-old plea deal on sex trafficking
charges should not be reopened.
Karp did not respond to requests for
comment and has previously said he
regretted his social interactions with
Epstein.
Epstein later forwarded Karp's remarks
to members of his personal legal team
and Kathy Rumler, the former White House
counsel.
Communications show Rumler offered
Epstein [music] her perspective and
advice for years
including advising him on how to respond
to media queries tied to his alleged
criminal activities.
Throughout their friendship, Epstein
showered Rumler with luxury gifts. The
emails mention spa treatments, thousands
of dollars in gifts, and designer goods.
A spokesperson for Rumler who plans to
leave her current role as general
counsel at Goldman Sachs [music] in June
said she knew Epstein in a professional
context through her work as a defense
attorney, has done nothing wrong, and
had no knowledge of his alleged criminal
activity.
Epstein's transactions weren't always
grand.
>> [music]
>> Records show him ordering and arranging
for things like chicken soup for Rumler
when she was reportedly sick.
A cashmere sweater for Noam Chomsky,
an Apple Watch for Steve [music] Bannon,
dumbbells for Reid Hoffman,
or underwear for Woody Allen.
Like the gifts he gave, donations and
seemingly philanthropic contributions
were just another form of leverage in
Epstein's network.
Harvard University was among the biggest
recipients of Epstein's [music] gifts.
He developed close ties to a number of
Harvard professors and leaders, most
notably Larry Summers, [music]
who was president of the university from
2001 to 2006.
Summers [music] connected him with
former president Bill Clinton.
Clinton has denied any knowledge [music]
of Epstein's alleged crimes and has
described their relationship as a brief
acquaintance.
>> [music]
>> A representative for the Clintons did
not respond to requests for comment.
Larry Summers [music] maintains he
engaged in no wrongdoing and has
expressed deep regret for his
association with Epstein.
Justice Department documents and
publicly available tax records show
Epstein recorded donations of at least
1.6 million dollars to New York schools
>> [music]
>> and he documented at least another
400,000 dollars in tuition payments.
Epstein used his connections to make
introductions and emails appear to show
him helping with admissions processes to
elite schools for the children of his
wealthy contacts. On one occasion,
emailing Eva Andersson Dubin to help the
daughter of Ariane de Rothschild.
Some of Epstein's most significant
financial and philanthropic ties ran
through Andersson Dubin and her husband,
Glenn Dubin,
with whom he had a long-standing and
close relationship. Eva Andersson Dubin
is a physician and the founder of the
Dubin Breast Center at Mount Sinai.
And documents from the Justice
Department show Epstein discussing at
least $400,000 to Mount Sinai linked
initiatives. That philanthropy seemed to
have practical benefits with Epstein
then drawing on physicians in Anderson
Dubin circle to arrange discreet medical
care and procedures for young women he
was connected to.
>> [music]
>> One of the surgeons in that orbit was
just Ting, a prominent New York doctor
who developed a personal relationship
with Epstein.
Emails show Epstein's assistants
repeatedly reached out to Ting to
coordinate medical consultations and
minor procedures
both for Epstein and for women described
as his friends.
The emails between Ting and Epstein
indicate a $50,000 donation towards his
research.
>> [music]
>> Ting, who did not return a request for
comment, has denied any wrongdoing
regarding his association with Epstein.
And a spokesperson for the Dubins has
said they were horrified by the
allegations against Epstein [music] and
had they been aware of his alleged
criminal conduct would have cut off all
ties long ago.
Epstein also directed at least $50,000
in donations to Columbia University's
Dental School.
His dentist, [music]
Dr. Thomas Magnani, was later removed
from his role at the college after
Columbia said it admitted Epstein's
girlfriend to its dental school via an
irregular process.
Magnani did not respond to requests for
comment.
Epstein's philanthropy moved him into
elite donor circles, eventually
intersecting with figures like LinkedIn
co-founder Reed Hoffman, who later
proved helpful in expanding Epstein's
network into big tech hosting Epstein at
a dinner along with Mark Zuckerberg,
Peter Thiel, and Elon Musk.
As his network expanded, Epstein then
used it as another form of leverage,
positioning himself as an indispensable
intermediary and fixer for the powerful.
Across thousands of messages revealed in
the Epstein files, he is seen repeatedly
promising introductions and positioning
himself as the person who could connect
powerful figures to one another.
Emails indicate Epstein facilitated
introductions between Sultan Ahmed bin
Sulayem and former British politician
Peter Mandelson.
Sulayem later sought UK government
support for a major port project
designed [music] to expand trade and
shipping.
Epstein also facilitated a meeting
between Apollo co-founder Josh Harris
and Bill Gates.
>> [music]
>> The effort suggests a financially
strategic one for Epstein, who owned
250,000 shares of Apollo at the time.
Epstein's [music] correspondences reveal
how he operated at the center of an
elite network, frequently acting as a
go-between, and leveraging those ties to
grow his influence.
By identifying what powerful people
needed and positioning himself as the
person who could provide it, Epstein was
able to embed himself across finance,
politics,
>> [music]
>> academia, and global business as a
trusted broker and confidant, often
blurring the lines between business and
personal relationships.
While appearing in Epstein's network
[music] does not in itself imply any
wrongdoing, the disclosures have
prompted resignations, [music]
investigations, and renewed scrutiny,
as well as public backlash toward
[music] powerful figures perceived to
have enabled him.
>> [clears throat]
[music]
>> Oh.